# Project: Knights Travails
Following the [TOP (The Odin Project)](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/ruby-knights-travails) course and creating project to practice my Graph search algorithms (BFS and DFS) skills.
> Your task is to build a function knight_moves that shows the shortest possible way to get from one square to another by outputting all squares the knight will stop on along the way.

## Table of Contents
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Implementation](#implementation)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Installation
1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/otherdcn/top-knights-travails
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
bundle install
```

## Usage
Use the following command to run the application:
```bash
ruby main.rb
```

## Implementation
This specific implementation uses the breadth-first search algorithm, however acquiring/generating an on-demand list of adjacent nodes to the current node being processed. This implementation does not store a complete graph of possible knight moves on a standard eight-by-eight chessboard. This means it's not querying an adjacent matrix or adjacent list for all the nodes that are directly linked to the current processed node. The `knight_moves` method simply calls the `generate_legal_squares` method to generate a list of all the immediate legal moves that the knight piece can perform from the relative position in the chessboard they are in.

The list is generated by using the already known possible moves to calculate where it would land from the current node's square position, and then check it against the chessboard to ensure it doesn't go out of bounds. It calculates both the file and rank `(chessboard x and y axis)`, and if both are legal, it adds them as co-ordinates to the list of possible moves.

From there on, the list is sent back to the caller method (`knight_moves`) and the standard search procedure continues until we either find the target node (square) or visited all the nodes. NOTE: it will eventually find the target node:
> Given enough turns, a knight on a standard 8x8 chess board can move from any square to any other square.

## Contributing
If you feel the need to try it out and perhaps contribute:
1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch: `git checkout -b feature-name`.
3. Make your changes.
4. Push your branch: `git push origin feature-name`.
5. Create a pull request.

## License
This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

